Instructor: The Amen break
is a four measure long
drum break that was
originally recorded
in the 1960s and has
become one of the most
often remixed and sampled
drum beats in all time.
Now we're going to recreate it
in EarSketch and then
we're going to remix it
in EarSketch.
So the code I have here
recreates the Amen break.
I'm using makeBeat
and I have a list of drum sounds
here from the EarSketch
sound library:
kick, snare,
and three different hi-hats.
And then I've broken up
the beat string here
since it's four measures long—
that's 64 characters.
So I've broken it up
into different parts.
I have an "a," "b," and "c" part
for the kick and snare
and then a cym1,
cym2, and cym3 part
for the hi-hat sounds.
And the reason I did that
is to make it more readable
but also because
there's some repetition
built into the Amen Break,
so I can use
string concatenation
to help make that clear.
So amenBreak = a + a,
there's my repetition, + b + c.
Then we get the same
repetition with the cymbals,
cym1 + cym1,
so there's my repetition,
+ cym2 + cym3.
Then I have two makeBeat()
function calls placing
the two different beat strings
on tracks one and two of my DAW.
And we can listen to what
the amenBreak sounds like.
[drum beat]
So now I want to remix it,
and I want to do that
by generating a random
beat string that I insert
in the middle
of the Amen Break.
So before we insert it,
let's just generate a
random beat string.
And I want this to be
a half-measure long,
so eight characters long.
I am going to call
my random part "insertSection,"
and I'll initially define it
to be an empty string—
just beginning quotations
and ending quotations.
And then I want a "for" loop
here for "i" in range(8),
because I want to generate
eight characters here.
And each time I go
through that "for" loop,
I want to add another
random character
onto insertSection.
To do that concatenation,
I'll say insertSection =
insertSection + randint(0,4).
And the reason I'm doing
randint(0,4) is I want
that random number
that we keep on adding on
to the beat string
to be something
that is an index
into this drums list.
And we have zero, one,
two, three, four elements.
So randint(0,4) will give me
either zero, one, two, three,
or four each time.
Then I'll go ahead and just put
a print statement
at the end here,
so I can see what it creates.
I'll press run and immediately
I have an error.
Says it cannot concatenate
"str" and "int" together,
so that's a problem.
So what I need
to do is change
the integer
that's coming back
from my randint() function
into a string.
So I'm going to add "str" there
to convert it to a string.
And when I press run again,
it should work, and I can see
the random string it generated.
Another thing which
I already did, but might
be another thing to check for
if you get an error
is to make sure when
you're using random functions,
that you always import the
random library at the beginning.
So not just
"from earsketch import *,"
but also
"from random import *."
So now I've generated this
but my music hasn't changed
at all because I haven't
taken these random
eight characters and put them
into the Amen break anywhere.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to combine it
with "a" so that the second time
I put an "a"—
the first time it will be the
original "a"—
the second time I put
an "a" here,
I'm going to use half
of the original "a"
and then half
of this insertSection.
So I'll do that with
concatenation and string slices.
So I'll define a new variable,
I'll call it "newA."
And I'll start with
insertSection,
those random eight characters
that I just generated,
and I'll concatenate on
to the end of that
the second half of "a."
So I'll use my slice notation
to do that.
And character eight of "a"
through to character 16 of "a."
So now if I print out newA,
you can see that it's
taken my random string,
and it's added on
the second half of "a" to that.
Now to generate
the whole string I want,
I can just say newBeat equals,
instead of a + a + b + c,
it will be a + newA + b + c.
And here, instead of amenBreak,
I can do newBeat.
And we can hear what that
remixed amenBreak sounds like.
[remixed drum beat]
We can also compare
these side by side,
I can go ahead
and print out amenBreak
and print newBeat,
and when I run this again,
I can see them both
together in the console.
See, they're all identical
except these eight characters
here where I inserted
my randomly generated content.